Okay, good morning folks. We are live.
Hi.
Uh, real quick here,
let's just get some new windows. These
are kind of off.
The plan for today, we need to fix the
multi-discrete bug.
Uh we'd like to get several other
environments bound and working with
Puffer 4.
More refactoring and hopefully we can
get some of the more complex MS cuz
there are a few there are a few tidbits
I'm not sure how I want to port yet uh
with the old end bindings.
So we're going to have to figure that
out as well today.
I'm gonna get one other window here
which is just going to be for testing.
Make sure we still have breakout
working.
Okay. Yeah, this still works,
right? Still trains as expected.
Does it?
Yes. Yes, it does. It's just very slow.
Look at that. Without photographs or
kernels on.
Very slow.
Well, by puffer standards.
So apparently
the error surface is much larger than I
thought.
So this is what I got stuck on last
time.
I had thought that I had it working
without the kernel, but I don't think I
did.
So,
uh, we need to actually now go and
isolate the bug correctly since I did it
wrong last time.
Here's Puffer target.
And this should learn virtually
instantly. Uh, this environment here.
And you can see it. This one's weird. It
has to be based on episode length.
Um
but yeah,
questions
Yeah. Yeah. Enough trolling, my dude.
They're
Why do you look so sad?
Like I just woke up because I just woke
up.
And we also have a bug to fix today. So
I think
the way to do this would be
morning routine.
Uh, I mean, I got a shower, I shaved, I
went and I made myself
my morning protein drink, and then I
started booting I just booted up the
stream
on Saturday. I try to just like really
work the whole day if I can.
I was actually a little slow today. I
would have liked to have been live um
know half hour earlier, but that's all
right.
Oh, this is fine. I can do it the other
way first.
Self motivation like this.
uh just the fact that I've had way way
way way more motivation at other points
in my life
and like other blocks of work,
you know? So, like if you do a couple
blocks of work where you're really just
doing absolutely nothing but focusing on
your thing, then the uh your default
setting is going to be much higher than
most people. Even when you're not doing
that,
Hello, Jonah. Oh, hey.
Yeah, you wanted to chat about Colonels.
One second. Let me go grab one thing and
I will uh I will chat with you on that.
So, what are we looking at with these
colonels, man?
I'll finish this test and then I'll just
undo all this crap and we'll have a nice
clean version to try to uh test them
from.
Yeah, the thing is that this test is
freaking backwards, so this isn't going
to tell us much anyways.
Yeah. So this one I had left it in float
64 because we were doing correctness
test and I don't
Yeah, this was for correctness test
before this speed up as expected. I did
this exact same thing with my other
colonels.
Better walk to speak message on Discord.
Yeah, Discord's good.
I can hop in the voice if you prefer as
well or just type in Jen or dev or
whatever. I have this up on my other
monitor.
Wait, FBR, isn't your stuff super
heavily AI?
I think I've read a few chunks of your
code.
I know you definitely produce like new
projects at a very suspicious pace.
Maybe you're very productive. I don't
know.
the fact it trains poorly is kind of
fine.
Wasn't getting any precision issues in
my test in float 32. I don't know what
test you're running. So log pum x is
fine, man. Um
the
let me explain let me explain stuff. So
when I was developing the fuse scan
kernel right so the fuse scan kernel
has a log pim sum x internally in it I
believe. Uh yes. So I did this as a
standalone because the fuse scan kernel
is very difficult to get correct. Um so
for this one right did you add no I
don't see you've added the uh the test
here. So this one is a very very
important kernel.
Wait, am I stupid? Did you have this all
did you have this attached already
yesterday? No, wait. This is yesterday.
Okay, commented yesterday. Fine. So we
have
Okay. Right. Combined.
Okay.
I will go test this. Let me let me
Okay. I will go test this. Let me let me figure out what the heck is going on
figure out what the heck is going on
here. And I'm just going to copy this
code over and test it. And if it is,
then I'll integrate it formally.
This is new PR. Yeah. Okay.
Uh let me hold on. Let me finish this
train of thought real quick. So the fact
that this does
Okay. No, this this wrote a completely
stupid test.
Okay, cool.
Yeah, I wasn't paying attention because
I was having um a conversation at the
same time. I know there is a test that
we can write that will um that we will
be able to isolate this bug. I will go
check your fernal first though.
So, we're going to test um we'll test
the kernel speed.
We will test uh
end to end speed and we'll test numeric.
Okay. So we have clean starting point.
I also have to do a kernels on
and cudigraphs.
It has to be um we need the lowest
overhead setting for this test.
Okay, there we go. There's our 10 mil.
Yeah, 10 mil.
And
I had to make some random changes to
back end and profile because I was
having build issues.
I don't know why you would have to
change backend. Uh, of course it makes
sense you'd have to change profile
maybe.
Check the PR. Yeah, this was just
halfbaked most likely.
Wait, that's a lot of changes. Hang on.
Run. Oh. Oh, okay. Cuz you added to the
checkpoint method. That's fine.
So yeah, this is fine. We'll take this.
Yeah, this is good that you added this
as a separate one. That's nice.
Let me fix this first. I don't know what
version you were working off of. We had
uh the modules thing. I don't know if
this is the same version as you were
working on. Let me fix this and then
I'll integrate.
Yeah, this. Okay. You already have this
fixed up here, right?
Yeah, you're probably on the right
version then.
I can probably just take your file. Let
me see if this works. If not, I'll just
take your whole file
and then what I'll do is I'll
essentially I'll test this locally and
if it works then I'll just formally
merge it.
I do want to actually understand this
like quite carefully though because this
is the most important kernel. Yeah.
Okay. So this is
this is our um
yeah this is this file just being stale.
Let me take your version.
Oh, you needed the back end as well.
Okay, hang on.
Oh yeah, this is this is dated because
we're um
Is this getting called in here? Cuz we
don't use this anymore.
dict
set now.
Yeah, it's just [ __ ] set.
That's why.
So, what I figured out is we don't need
to have it conditioned on type. We can
just use a double and a double will have
all the precision of um
uh for all the ins anyways.
Yeah, it just it got it uh I updated
some other stuff and I didn't update the
test yet. So there like this should
work.
A better Vim RC.
You don't like my Vim RC?
I mean, what stuff, right? I don't like
to have like a ton of uh extensions and
such.
Where the heck is this?
I thought we had um
and add your kernel.
Get your kernel.
Okay. So, you added this checkpoint
interval, right?
Wait. Huh?
Fuse scan. Back. Wait. Fuse scan.
Okay. They're just weirdly in order.
Like they're weirdly ordered, right?
Because it should be fuse scan
checkpointed. So this goes here.
And then we need your backward kernel,
which is not this one. It's down
here.
Can't live without relative line
numbers.
I mean, you know, I can just Was it
Was it numbers?
Oh, and then the freaking rappers. Yeah,
those rappers are so bad.
Oh, and then it's going to have to be
the module.
Uh, yeah, we need to go get your
rappers, too.
I don't want to have to have those
stupid rappers. They're like,
that's very obnoxious
Oh, I need the launch functions as well.
Duh.
launch function. Launch function and the
rappers, right?
I mean, I should have just checked this
out and um
we'll just do this real quick.
We'll do it correctly thereafter.
If this one works, then what I'll do is
I will um
I'll like just start like I'll probably
just make a clean commit of this and
I'll start merging your other ones. I
just want to see that this is actually
tested correctly as a new contributor,
right?
I actually do want the um I actually I
would rather have
um the AI tools in my editor rather than
in this other stupid window, but I do
not believe you need a different IDE for
that.
Okay. Oh, and the and the rappers. The
rappers as well.
things important to get faster. How
should I try prioritizing certain
things? Well, we have the full profile,
right? So, you could run um
like we have NSIS set up nicely with a
bunch of hooks so you can see exactly
how much time everything is taking in
training. I'll show you in a moment. Um,
yeah, this is just a pain because I was
kind of I was in the middle of doing
this other thing and I had not fixed um
and
let's just go do here. Let's go do this.
and then I will see if I can go run the
profiler and stuff.
So you can see we have like we have a
pretty nice setup where we can see
exactly uh exactly the time of
everything being spent.
Okay. There's It's actually several
things are stale.
Yeah, these are just stale. That's all
it is.
It's just stale signatures.
I did a little refactoring um before.
Um, so if you're looking for the NSIS
command as well,
so we have this NSIS command here for
profile kernels.
Um, you can get breakdown of the forward
call, train forward.
So you can actually get all the
different calls that are in the network.
You can also run it on training itself.
If you want to insist on training
itself,
I can get you the exact calls.
They're building 40 head from changes.
Yeah. So, it's because I was in the
middle of messing with multi-discreet
last night. That's basically it. Let me
fix let me fix this stuff up so we can
get like get your stuff tested and if it
works, it'll actually a very nice
contribution.
I'm curious to see the speed dip though.
I mean it should be able to be quite
appreciable.
Yeah, this is me just having let I've
just like let the test get stale.
Yep, there you go. This is the new
signature.
I know if I can use that doesn't give
access.
You can't use NCU. Oh, um I think Nys
works and NCU doesn't, man.
I'm pretty sure Nys works.
I'm not positive.
Maybe it doesn't.
I remember NCU being a pain. I think Nis
is fine.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. No, like if from the
profile you sent me before, you were
already running it, weren't you? Or we
were just running the numeric?
H.
There we go
for correctness and actually pull the
new kernels.
That is good.
So presumably you did not add the module
for this,
but that's fine. That's super easy.
Backward
Wait, fuse scan. But wait, where's the
fuse scan profile?
confused. Uh there is a checkpointed
one.
I don't see a one of these. Is it
profile checkpointed? No.
Is there a profile for the checkpointed
version?
I don't see one. I see
It was logged to standard out. Am I
blind?
Oh yeah, I'm blind. Okay.
Oh
Okay. Well, well, we will run this for
comparison.
Uh, it's likely that that is a fair bit
faster.
I don't think the one thing that I don't
have which is a little bit irritating is
I don't think I have a forward versus
backward profile check though actually I
think we can probably eyeball it here.
Um
40 microsconds
and it's a forward plus backward pass
which is 15% of the time.
It's probably like a good
76.
It might be noticeable. It might be like
visibly noticeable. I think it's like
hard to say for now.
Let me go see what other kernels you
have as well.
You have to add your credit as well for
this
provided this is stable.
Okay. So this kernel here Jonas um or
Jonah this kernel here. So I think this
would be a nice kernel. This is a nice
kernel to have for us. Um online softmax
by doing an online softmax in both. Oh,
okay. Huh?
In favor of recomputation. Cool. So,
this kernel would be nice except that
this one I didn't get to be numerically
stable yet. Like if you run the
correctness check because there's the
Python correctness check, the old one uh
that doesn't pass and then this one is
this one destabilizes training still.
So, we want to use this kernel and it
will actually give us a nice little bump
to perf.
It needs to be stable though.
There's a bug in the PO. Yeah, I don't
remember.
I remember I started looking at that and
trying to figure out what was wrong.
The original. Yeah, there was a bug in
the original. I can confirm. Okay, cool.
This copies this over.
Oh yeah. Do you have any thoughts on um
uh on BF-16 by the way?
Because I was looking at this and I was
trying to figure out whether this is
worth it. Um
so from what I can see right the mat
moles are really small. BF-16 probably
is not huge for them,
but maybe there's bandwidth savings to
be had doing uh BF-16 for some of the
kernel ops,
but I think numerically it's pretty
sketchy to be doing the activations in
BF16.
So, I was trying to figure out if I want
to even support it at all, right? Like
maybe for um elementwise
uh gate ops like this we should just
drop BF-16 and then we can get rid of
all the templating and everything can be
much simpler.
I guess the one annoying thing is if you
do your training in BF-16, then you have
to do the additional cast
um before
the kernel otherwise.
So, I was using double originally for
numerical tests, man, because I was
trying to make sure it wasn't a
precision issue. So when I was writing
the kernels originally
that's why I was using double
because I was sort of wondering like um
you know if instead of having all these
freaking kernels support this maybe it
would be easier if I wanted to support
BF16 in the first place to just have
like the output
like fuse with the Matt Mola cast to
float 32 for the output instead.
I don't know.
Cast back to store.
which is how it's done now, right?
It's just obnoxious because we have
everything we have to have everything
templated.
Keep your values in BF16, I guess. Then
what would that be? We would do um
that is actually worth considering
though. weight, right? Like, is that a
thing we can do? Can we do um can we
keep all our activations in BF-16 like
that? Keep the weights in 32.
I think that does actually work and that
would actually make it faster.
That's worth looking into. And then
maybe we can just do BF-16. I don't
know.
I'm really just sick of this templating,
you know?
It's just really obnoxious. Makes the
code a total mess. It'd be better if we
didn't have to have multiple D types. If
we just have one thing and it's stable,
then we're kind of set.
Oh, yeah. By the way, for anybody who's
trying to follow this conversation with
Jonah,
uh, we have the Maybe I should leave the
Discord window up here.
and double. Yeah, I know that that one
is slow, man. That kernel was like we do
want that kernel, but it's not currently
being used as is. Like the code for that
is copied in float into the other
kernels. Okay, I do think that this is a
little bit faster. It's um it's tough to
fully tell visually, but I'm pretty sure
this is a little faster.
It's stable either way.
Is it being used?
So, let me see if I can get the NSIS
profile for you to show you that thing.
The GPU.
Okay. Well, then that's actually legit.
Yeah. I mean, I was getting the sense
that like I would be shocked if you were
just fully vibing this um cuz the models
are not good enough to just do this
directly.
I know.
So, I asked if you were a colonel dev
and you said like not really no, but
like if you've actually gone through the
material, that makes you better than 90%
of the people that are just like trying
to claw their way through everything.
Now,
see, I didn't go through the GPU or
anything, Jonah. I just basically I've
been doing C for the last couple of
years. Um, and in my mind it's just like
C that runs on GPU, C that runs on CPU.
I understand what bandwidth is. I
understand what flops are. Man, no big
deal.
At least before you get to like, you
know, at least for trivial kernels that
don't have fancy synchronizations.
Okay, let's see if this gives it to us
so we can show you um the full the full
thing. Yeah,
there are a couple different modes that
you can run this with.
So, these are the uh the single kernels,
right?
This is the kernel you added here. We
can see right here that your kernel is
faster. This is the profile test you
ran.
It's about the same for backwards
and uh some like significantly faster
forwards, right?
And uh torch check failed. Lovely.
What the hell is wrong with this?
Oh yeah, this is just Hang on. Let me
fix this mess.
Well, that's just great.
This is what happen when test gets stale
obsessed with
SPS meaningful performance metric given
SPS
M. So, um, Kilamaria. So, yes, you can
gimmick it. Um, if I were p if I were
just trying to publish a paper and put
the highest number out there possible,
then yes, I could gimmick it and I could
get 30 or 40 million,
but that's not what I'm trying to do.
I'm trying to actually make this stuff
work. So, like I have controls, right?
Uh, the target was 10 million SPS with
8192 environments, two buffers, and 32K
mini batch size.
So,
I have reasonable constraints under
which to hit this target.
That prevent me from doing like janky
things that don't actually make a
difference. So, you will see. I can
guarantee you that you will see when I
put this update out that all like all
training across the board just gets
meaningfully better. And especially when
you're doing sweeps, you're going to
notice that a lot of the configurations
of sweeps that were very inefficient
before are suddenly just stupidly fast
because the optimizations I'm doing here
are all like they're all overhead
reduction if that makes sense. So pretty
much uh any training configs that would
be more affected by having overhead on
all the little calls before will be less
affected by that overhead. Now, training
runs that were already like pretty
heavily GPU saturated will not benefit
as much, but they will still benefit
because the overhead's just across the
board and I'm not doing anything that
would hurt those runs.
To the point of that, right, I did um I
ran neural MMO yesterday with like the
same model from before that was 500k in
Puffer 3. It's a bigger model and it's
750k now in puffer 4
in test speed up log. You can remove the
first branch at least.
Oh yeah, that was um that was the thing
that we were talking about before. That
would be that could actually be nice.
Let me figure out what the heck is wrong
with this uh this profile first. This
isn't narrow.
I mean, surely something's just out of
date
here.
I can actually take a better look.
That'd be good.
We definitely I want to get that PO
kernel working for sure. Um my task at
the moment for today I need to get
multidiscreet working.
I actually I think multidiscreet is
going to be very easy with the kernel.
It's a total pain in the ass without a
kernel.
I don't think that the problem that
we're having with that is with that
kernel though. That's just like
a bunch of things have to be changed to
support that. We're also going to need
continuous sampling at some point
relatively soon, maybe even later today.
But yeah, honestly, just like improving
our core kernels is uh is very helpful.
I think that the big ones are the mining
gate kernel is leaking. I think like
maybe uh good 10% of our profile time if
I remember and then the fuse scan kernel
is the really big one like most of our
wasted time is in fuse scan and then
there's kind of a long tail of other ops
if you could fix the um the PO backward
kernel so it's numerically correct that
would also be huge what's this
multi-discrete kernel so instead of
sampling a single action you have some
environments that have uh multiple
actions that they take and If you try to
write that down in a torch operation,
you get a complete and utter mess. If
you try to write a kernel, it's actually
very easy. But I I will be able to fix
the kernel for that. It's actually it's
the torch uh it's the torch version of
the code as well as the environment
updates required that are messing with
me for that. That's what I was doing
before you hopped on.
Okay. Yeah. See, this is totally
the signature is just out of date.
That makes sense. Thanks. Yeah. So, I
mean, this is kind of the cool thing
about having good incentives, right? I
don't The problem with being in academia
and when I was in academia, right? If
this were going to be a paper, I would
be forced to optimize for really stupid
targets, right? like I'd have to do 32km
or something and not care as much about
overhead or something like that because
there would be some other paper that had
also gimmicked it and like gone with
completely dumb testing constraints. But
reviewers don't understand that. But
because I'm no longer in academia and
now I'm just here on my own trying to
make this field work, uh, I can just
ignore all that noise and just test
under the conditions I know that
actually matter, right?
So it you don't get as crazy of a number
on paper, but when you actually go to
use the tool, it works. and you go to
use the other tool, it doesn't.
Uh, the one thing I'm absolutely not
happy about with this, the amount that
I'm having to use claw to refactor crap
in here, it's pretty much entirely just
because of how verbose and redundant all
the code is, right? Like I can't ever
just edit one line somewhere. I have to
edit that line in 10 different places.
My hope is once we figure out if we can
just like have one DT type path and not
have these crazy headers everywhere and
clean up the bindings, I'm hoping it
will be less redundant and more human
friendly.
But for now, it's like it's kind of like
I'm cleaning up somebody else's mess in
a sense because this is what Torch does
as well. Actually, Torch does it even
worse. They put everything in macros.
So, um stuff just breaks with no error
message.
Yeah. Yeah. So, the mining grew gate is
actually pretty darn quick already.
I guess the thing that could be done
with the mining gate would be um
Oh, actually, Jonah, do you know how to
fuse um do you know how to fuse gate
operations with the maples?
That's one of the things I've been
trying to figure out because I know that
there's this like fancy epilogs thing
that's kind of annoying,
but because you don't have like the
open- source Nvidia maple, I like I
don't know if there's a way to nicely
fuse element arbitrary element wise
kernels to the end
without making a total mess.
CUDA out of memory.
like FMA.
So the idea being um
instead of instead of launching the
maple kernel
and then launching the
uh and then launching the mining gate
kernel like can you is it possible to do
it so that
I guess the way I would explain this is
if we have the source to the maple
kernel that Nvidia uses you paste the
mattal kernel and then you paste the
gate kernel in one kernel.
I guess I don't know how it I don't know
how the reductions work in in that. So
like
there might be an extra sync anyways,
but you should save the memory
bandwidth, right?
of like having to load the memory back
into the uh the gate kernel,
but I don't know how to do it, right?
Because you don't have Nvidia's kernel.
So like they have this fancy epilog
crap, which is their I think their C++
templated library. Um I don't know if
there's just an easy way to like fuse
arbitrary element wise ops to the end of
um Matt mold and we don't really care
about the launch overhead because we're
graphing stuff anyways like we have cuda
graphs on anyways but you still care
about the bandwidth and like you know
the the mining gate kernels it's very
fast it's like six micros but it gets
cold in a very tight loop.
where you're doing the mat holes the
linear layer. Oh, okay. This is what I
was trying to show you. Let me see if
this one works.
Okay. So there this still jank but look
at this right. So we can do this one.
Uh or is it forward call?
So this is the basic profile for forward
call. So this is the entire forward pass
of our network.
You see graph is 51 microsconds
for our forward pass. And then
Okay, here. So, you see this
actually these two this split K should
not be in here. I think this was
introduced by um some of the new stuff
I'm doing with the logits kernel. So,
this should not be in here. But you see
this?
So this is the forward pass,
right? So I can run the NSIS version and
this tells us we have 81% of the time is
spent in these mat moles and then we
have 8.6% of the time in the mini brew
kernel.
And once I fix the train one, you'll be
able to do this with the um the train
version too like the train calls which I
think is just here.
and then we'll see if we can get the the
train call to work.
So I spent quite a lot of time on that
and you can see there are only four
different kernels here and actually this
split k reduce I think this can be
gotten rid of as well. Um, so it will
actually just be three kernels.
If you go profile some arbitrary torch
code, it'll be a bajillion little stupid
kernels.
Cloud code is stupid. It is stupid. The
models are all very stupid.
They are the thing that I've changed my
mind about though is that they are
actually helpful.
It's actually funny. The more that I use
the um the more I use the model, the
more I think it's actually pretty
stupid, even though it is helpful.
It's actually kind of better that the
model is um
as long as it has very high accuracy in
applying very well- definfined uh
transformations to the code. That's kind
of all I needed to do.
Heck.
Uh yeah, it's out of memory.
Okay. Well, I we'll have to fix this as
I fix the multi-discrete kernel, man.
But you kind of get the sense. Matt
moles are from regular and then linear.
Yes, exactly.
So, that's kernel 2 in that profile that
I showed you before.
Where is it?
Okay, so this one here, kernel 2 is
maple. This comes from the linear layer.
I worked very hard to get this to 81%.
When I started, this was like 20 or 30%.
Uh, then the next one is the minate
kernel. This is all of our activation
stuff fused into one big kernel.
I mean, you can see it's already like it
could be made a little bit faster. You
can probably save a few percent off of
our inference here, but it's already a
four ncond kernel.
But the launch overhead on this machine
is even lower than that, right? The
launch overhead's only like two nanos.
I mean, two micros, my bad. It's four
microcond uh two microcond. So, sample
logics is here. Sample logics is very
fast. And then this split reduce I need
to get rid of. I think this is just from
the latest stuff I've been testing,
tricking people into thinking it's good.
Um, thinking it's smart for sure. So
again, I'm not using it the way that he
uses it for programming though, right?
He came on the stream when I was doing
the vibe coding thing, right? The vibe
coding stream and he said, "Oh yeah,
this is how I've been using it." And
then uh I'm not using it remotely that
way now, right? I'm using it to apply
well- definfined transformations to
existing code.
So it basically does not have to think.
It just has to template match.
It literally just has to do like
reasonably it has to do reasonably
accurate template matching is all.
So that is very very different from like
you know writing a spec and I program in
English right dur
like think
right
uh Jonah this it seems like your kernel
is good and that's actually a very very
valuable contribution. ution. So, thank
you. I will make sure you're credited
for this and I'm like I'm going to look
forward to integrating a bunch of your
other kernel stuff. Let me clean up my
multi-discrete crap that I've been
working on because as you can see I kind
of have a mess at the moment and it's
making it difficult for me to test your
stuff. Um
I think here the last thing I'll show
you though is
I wish I could run the train forward
path. You could see the time right once
I get that train thing to work here.
Actually,
maybe I can maybe I can get this real
quick.
like tier list of people I trust. Uh at
top of AI companies would probably be
okay. Demis,
uh, Elon,
Zuck or Daario? Probably Zuck, even
though he's not really doing stuff
anymore with this properly. Um,
Daario and then Alman.
That's probably the list.
Well, okay. If Ilia's on that list, Ilia
goes straight uh Ilia goes straight up
to the top. Well, to be fair, I I'd have
to see what he's doing first
because Demoth is also really good.
But yeah, I do I trust Ilia.
Ilia's awesome.
one of the most brilliant people I've
ever uh I've ever spoken with.
It's actually kind of funny that I have
not liked as much um
based on like what I would think I would
I should like Deep Mind way more than I
do. I think it's just that Deep Mind I
don't think that they do their
engineering correctly.
I think if DeepMind actually really got
their engineering right and like didn't
get so easily sidetracked by like really
interesting sounding but not
particularly useful algorithmic
problems, uh, Deep Mind would be top of
the top
I mean, he's obviously a like
foundational person in the whole field.
I have no idea with Meta. Like, I don't
envy his job at meta. I wouldn't want to
have to corral those awful, awful
engineers.
Um,
I mean, he's more out there, but
definitely deserves way, way more
respect than most of the other people
[ __ ] on him.
I mean, he'd be way better served if he
just like most of the scientists, which
I do myself, if he just stuck to um the
science and didn't try to like know dual
purpose all of his platform for
politics.
That was a really stupid move.
He's starting his own startup. I think
he kind of got kicked out.
Um but yeah, hey, good luck to him.
I we definitely do need more people who
actually know what they're doing on the
science side trying out their stuff that
isn't just the current scale language
models hope to
Commit your ch wait commit your changes
and roll back.
The forward call stuff was working then
wasn't using that. Yeah, don't worry
man. I'm going to I think that I will
I'm going to mess with this a bit. I'll
mess with the multidiscreet stuff. Let
me fix everything and then we can start
on your other kernels. Do you have other
kernels that are like stable that are
actively being used? Did you do the
mining grew one?
Let me see.
Fuse scan is used. This one we want to
use but it's broken. And I don't think
you have the mining grew one, right?
So this is the only kernel that you have
that's actively in the um in the main
loop right now. This one will get used
once we fix the numeric. And then this
one will be like we can port these
changes into fuse scan because fuse scan
uses this
Yeah, demus is good if fine tuning on
real physical rollouts a meme
to deal with real before I spend a
month.
Um, I don't think it's a meme, but I
also don't think it's the best thing to
be doing as a small startup.
Like, we have um
the closest project we have to that man
is the puffer drive project with NYU
where the idea is that the driving
companies have some real world data, but
they don't have anywhere near as much as
Tesla does. So they want to train a lot
in sim but then also be able to use some
real world data.
I personally think that you should be
able to get it to work without real
world data though just based on CIS ID
like implicit CIS ID from domain
randomization.
If you're looking for somebody to talk
to though on drone space that is really
like they've done a lot like Finn and
Sam are absolutely crushing it at the
moment
um with the drone stuff
it does work in real. Yeah. Did you see
they also have the they also got it
hovering in puffer
and it does work in real it looks like
which is awesome to see.
Need to work better. Yeah.
I wouldn't just like blindly go
collecting real world data though. I'd
spend some time actually like analyzing
what's wrong and the gap. Oh [ __ ] No
way. Yeah. Yeah. They they have the
drone. They have their drone cuz I sent
them one. Remember? I sent them a crazy
fly.
Finn is also interning with us for the
summer.
I mean, he asked and I couldn't say no,
right?
Is a really bad move. No, I don't think
it's a bad move.
Not at all.
Actual real hardware sensors and
firmware. Why would that be the limit,
dude?
Okay, so we still get stupid memory out
of memory. Well, let's go fix the um the
dumb um sampling stuff and then we'll
come back to this.
Why we want to see people doing fell in
the open.
Honestly, dude, I think we're I think
this problem is getting crushed.
I think we've got sim fast enough now
and we're like advancing enough with the
core RL loop that this problem is just
getting absolutely crushed.
Like you realize why like you realize
why from pixels is hard man right so
first of all yes you can write a batch
renderer it's actually very impressive
to write a good batch renderer but you
still don't have photorealistic training
data right you've got this massive
massive gap um
which is why like state estimation kind
of makes sense because at least At least
then you can fit the data that you see
into something that you can reasonably
sim and train on.
And also most of the roboticists in this
space are just hard trolling. So like
you can kind of assume that a lot of
things can just be way better.
Need sensors that are easy to simulate.
That I agree with. Yep, that is true.
that hardware dude that you order stuff
from on uh on Twitter can help, right?
Okay, let me now go think of what was
the actual test I wanted to run to
isolate this.
It was running the full multi-discrete
sampling, right?
Wait, I have apartment exploration
solved off of pixels. That's pretty darn
good.
have an array of 32 by3 lane in combat,
which is like not bad. I think
32 by 32 is pretty limiting.
See the problem is like if you want
these things to be able to do higher
level stuff they need to have actual
images and stuff which then you either
end to end it in which case you spend a
crazy amount of money or you do um you
do CIS ID right ultimately yeah probably
end to end wins uh and you end up with
like a ton of real world training data
but we're not doing that [ __ ] at the
moment right we're not doing that [ __ ]
And basically the only people that have
an actual incentive to put that amount
of money in anyways to do that are the
military. So like whatever
VAE you can't just like
you can't just like throw variational
autoenccoder at me and like that. What's
that supposed to solve my dude? What is
that supposed to solve my dude?
like yes I remember I implemented one of
these in PyTorch beta version uh or I
think actually in TensorFlow one uh when
I was
18 or 19 and had a terrible flu
in my freshman or I think sophomore
This is an old ass architecture. What?
Iron dome on the back of a truck.
Iron go on the back of a truck. What?
Are you trying to identify military
vehicles or something? I'm confused.
But like you can probably do that
without even having vision, you know,
you do kind of know need to know which
drones are yours and which ones aren't
if it's um if there are lots of them.
Yo, for someone who does not have access
to compute, how do I get into RL? Uh,
Puffer Lip runs millions of steps per
second, even if you don't have compute.
And you can rent GPUs for like 9 cents
an hour for the really cheap ones or 30
to 40 cents an hour for the like
actually decent ones. So
since Puffer Lip exists, you don't
actually need compute.
Check out my guides. They're all on X.
It's got like a pretty much end to end
like step by step. This is how you get
into RL.
I'm trying to do is actually solve. I
just need to solve it again because
obviously no one has this available.
Simulation is useful.
The batch render seem like things like
edge detection that will transfer.
Yeah, the batch render is just a pain in
the ass to make fast is all
you can make it decently fast.
Have you seen a 10 million step per
second RL my guy?
10 million step per second RL
is uh
It's okay. 10 million step per second RL
isn't real and it can't hurt you.
It's okay. 10 million step per second
isn't real. It can't hurt you.
500k 20x
500k is still pretty good for rendered.
It's tough to make batch rendering fast,
but I mean, you know, I got a factor of
20 on you in the speed department here
now. So, it's like
speed is good. I can train neural MMO
faster than 500k now as well.
experience lower performance and and LAR
like 2 million.
Yeah. What's SPS on Nura Mo? The main
policy is 750K. I've hit 3 million with
smaller version though. I have pixels. I
can do that after my experiments.
Yeah, that's the thing, man. And you
need a faster dev loop.
You definitely need a faster dev loop.
I mean, now you know why RL is hard,
right? Like, and why this stuff is so
important.
Okay.
So, provided this test is done
correctly,
this should tell us whether the bug is
in sampling or if it's in the back end.
I mean, the stuff in Puffer um in Puffer
4 is like
it's pretty nutty.
Wouldn't been able to do it. And hey,
I'm glad to hear that you're doing well
with that, man.
Puffer is doing pretty decently as a
company as well, especially for the very
minimal amount of effort I've put into
the business side of it. And the tech is
going great. So, we're quite happy
overall.
RL is going to be huge. I'm not worried
about like, oh no, which open shores
people can like make all the money with
it. There's plenty to be made. I'm way
more curious to see what branches of
science can be advanced now.
I think we can advance quite a lot of
it.
There's still some poor algorithmic
problems though that need to be solved.
Oo.
Okay.
Look at this.
Okay. Look at this. This solves.
Huh.
The bug is actually in the uh the veans
logic.
10 ml SPS. Yes, fast. Should I mess
around with policy structure? Uh, we
have had some reports, especially with
coms, that com encoders can be quite
limiting depending what you're doing.
So I think generally if you have like um
flat state
like we have RMs that have flat state
and just have an encoder layer and then
some stack of base and then the decoder
that's a pretty solid architecture
but the uh the comp based encoders you
can get some stuff wrong there. Yes,
this is why as well the new architecture
that we have is way easier to scale.
Are we will solve stuff like material
science? Well, this is how I'm sure that
it's going to be important in general.
Um, everybody uses simulation like it's
all over the place. Tons and tons of
areas of of scientific research. It's
currently being used as a very primitive
tool in which you just guess and check.
You essentially just set up the initial
conditions. You run the sim and see if
the thing happens that you think. Uh RL
is going to let us do intelligent sim
where we can specify the outcome that we
want and then look at the path that was
taken to get there. And if we can do
that very fast, that makes simulation as
a tool a dramatically dramatically more
powerful one.
So, it's virtually impossible that we're
not going to be able to solve some crazy
problems that we couldn't be uh that
couldn't be solved before because of
this.
So, I really don't even have to like
care too much about the specifics at the
moment. I know that if I just make RL
awesome that we're going to unlock a
whole bunch of other problems in other
areas of science.
is useful for checking your Sim has
bugs. Yeah. So, that's the funny thing
as well. Um, the better our tools get,
the more that when it doesn't work, the
problems your Sim
is. It's pretty fun.
Also, it does find physics exploits
sometimes. We had that happen in slime
volley the other day. Uh, it would like
glitch the ball through the wall so the
opponent couldn't hit it back.
It was a fun one.
It mostly looks fine to me. How on earth
is this?
I wonder if it's in the uh
No, because it has to be in the copy
floor.
You told use code exactly the same way
as I do.
Dude, the last time you did this, you
came into the vibe coding stream when I
was just like doing absolute brain dead
[ __ ] and you were telling me, "Oh yeah,
this is exactly how I use it."
So which one is it?
mismatch and buffer counts
was there.
I mean, this was what it would have to
be. It would have to be like some small
mismatch, right?
Agents per buffer actions.
Then it's and then it stopped impressing
me and I had to handhold it.
So, what I'm doing with it now has seen
is I'm basically
I'm most the I'd say the vast majority
of the time I'm using it to execute
precisely described transformations to
existing code like you know fold this
thing into this other function or update
these signatures with this update right
or like uh or a larger thing would be
like uh port this test over to here for
this function matching exactly the way
this other test here is written stuff
like that where it's pretty much just
template matching.
So now I don't really think that these
things are smart or good at programming
per se, but they are pretty good at
template matching and uh that makes it a
useful tool.
And Twitter basically needs to just like
shut the [ __ ] up about um oh it's the
end of programming, the end of thinking,
the end of employment. All the money
goes to Sam Alman. Like shut up.
what's the Gemini one?
Honestly, I might end up doing that
because I was kind of just been thinking
about of these companies, which one like
which one am I the most happy to give
money to
Gemini's dog [ __ ] All right, so we'll
wait. We'll give it another gen or two.
I think the tier list is like um what is
it? Deep Mind X
uh
Meta
actually is Enthropic at the bottom or
second to bottom.
I think I like Ultman even less than
Daario,
but I like um
Open AI more than Enthropic.
So hard call.
Hey Jess,
currently attempting to fix
multidiscreet actions.
This has no maximum set to one,
you dummy.
Okay, it's doing something. It did
something super jank. Let me read this.
Yeah, I think it screwed this thing
broke the freaking test. Hang on.
Multi-iscrete's a pain.
We also have to do continuous still
which is also annoying.
right, be right back.
I uh Yeah, be right back. Let me use the
restroom. Let me get a cup of tea and
then we'll figure this out. It's
multi-discreet sampling just sucks
because it's one of those ops that's
incredibly annoying in torch and it's
actually very easy as a custom kernel.
Right back. Yep.
Okay, this is what we wanted. So the
goal is that we test whether the bug is
in the sampling op
or whether the bug is in
in training.
That's actually pretty easy to figure
out, right?
I've just kind of gotten distracted a
bunch. Hello, Spencer. Um,
we had a kernel PR that takes us cleanly
above 10 mil.
Uh, made the fuse kernel forward about
two to three times faster.
And
uh what else? We have multi-discrete
in progress. Let's say we have it
working on several Ms. now. But we need
multidiscreet to work. Target optimizes
instantly with single discrete. We just
need multiddiscrete.
I need to figure out how I'm going to
handle all the shared code. I actually
one of the projects that I want to have
done is I want to have um the benchmark
for the drive environment since that
one's very high bandwidth.
In my mind, we just kind of need a
stable pre-alpha build to this thing to
be done already.
Chest update profit dispenser.
Okay, very cool. I can look at one
Wait made some arch adjustments with
great success. Working theory is CNN
stride was screwing with it. That would
make sense.
Changed to shred one added residual
downsampling made it harder to learn
patterns.
Yeah. Ended with 25% win rate against my
1100 which to 910 ELO. Okay.
Really 10 bill phase.
That's solid.
Okay, that's a real model.
You are on the board now. That is a real
model.
And 20 bill. What's the policy size?
Because even if it's inefficient right
now, that's not a lot of compute.
Can we get the log linear curve for that
as well? It would be really cool to have
um
Oh man,
what I'd like to have is I'd like to
have the uh the alpha zero or whatever
their compute curve, right?
Versus our compute curve. Basically, I
want to see if we can get to be as
efficient as search on a compute basis.
860k. Yeah. Okay.
That's small enough. Techniques if a
simulation is too complex for an agent
to learn.
Yeah, that's called curriculum learning.
Tim, it's ex it exists. We have it. We
also have some stuff implicitly on this.
We have a a fair bit of research in that
space actually.
And Puffer 5 is um
Puffer 5 is not exactly doing that, but
it's going to be implicitly doing that
in a way that
pretty much solves that problem.
And I really want to have multi-discrete
sampling working today. I want to have
several new environments bound maybe
continuous. We'll see. I'd like to have
the kernel working for this as well.
So if this one breaks, how do we Let me
think what we can do from here.
believe in you. Yeah, it's okay.
I kind of um when I stream, I the amount
of time that I lose talking to chat is
not more than the amount of time I would
lose getting distracted by other stuff
if I were not streaming. So,
I much more enjoy working this way.
I particularly I like having like really
long stream days and then having a few
days where it's like more chill
Elon's
uh well because he is but he does get
stuff done and uh I don't believe he's I
think he actually has good intentions is
the thing
like I don't believe Dario or Alman
actually have good intentions at all
or Zuck for that matter. But I mean,
Zuck just wants to make some money, so
that's fine.
So this should isolate it to just the
board pass.
Yeah, I don't make any political
commentary on this stream, man.
I only talk about things that are direct
AI.
and my read of it from his bio versus
like the other information I I know
about the other um the other people
running stuff is
I don't think he is actively trying to
make something that is bad for like a
bad outcome for AI at the very least.
That said, I don't think I would touch
the uh Jack's TypeScript rust stack that
they're using at X with a 10- foot pole,
but
Okay, we not optimizing.
We're not optimizing. Cool.
14 logs.
Wait, what? You can't skip train forward
call, you idiot.
Oh, okay. Hang on. I have to think about
this test a little more. Intentions
are good.
Yeah.
I mean I would like like I think
humanity is going to change dramatically
with AI but I hope it's a way it it is
in a way that puts us in a better
position you know
I'd like to be to see people become
uh smarter, more capable, more able to
think and reason clearly because of AI,
not the opposite. that.
and humility.
Knowledge. Yes. Humility I don't
consider to be a positive trait.
I don't know why I didn't try this from
the start.
So basically we just try the
multi-discrete sampling logic but with a
single head.
You see this does train any of that
length.
Let me make sure this is good.
Yeah. So this does train.
Yeah, I'm using it.
Not like the first stream though, my
guy.
target to multi-discrete.
No, that's bad.
So Civ, I'm not using it remotely.
People were telling me to use it is the
thing.
Like the vast majority of my uses of
this are to apply wellcribed
uh transformations to chunks of existing
code.
much every single recommendation that
people were giving me was about giving
up more control to the AI and thinking
less. And I'm not doing that.
Okay, we know
it works for single variables
even in this path.
could be something with the sum logic
but I'm pretty sure this is how we want
it to be right
you store actions
and then in training you call sample
logits
Like my view is that you should be able
to be using these tools to think more
and to do more,
right? You should not be using them to
think less and to slowly be replacing
your ability to learn to the point that
the tool is just doing everything and
you have zero value add whatsoever on
top of it and you have no idea what's
going on.
So, in that first stream that I did,
right, as a test, because people asked
me to, I had absolutely no idea what the
hell was going on. I could have done
everything on that stream blackout
drunk. Uh, this project,
the way I'm working on things now, I
have to be every single bit as focused
and attentive as before. And I'm
actually thinking about pretty much the
same things. uh I'm just not getting
interrupted every 10 minutes by having
to like go track down eight places in
the code to manually update function
signatures because in this specific
project there's a ton of redundancy
because there are uh one two
three uh four different languages
involved and
like a few different external libraries
and things to deal with.
They all have their own nuances.
boiler plate very easy developed it's
it's not so much it's boilerplate it's
like it's very templaty is what I'd say
right like we have a bunch of things
where the code is very very well
described
and a lot of The operations are like
take this chunk of code that looks like
this other chunk of code and then
convert it to this other form just like
we converted this other chunk to that
form over here. Right?
See like this is a reversion.
This change
That's nothing.
I can occasionally use it to like check
for um
like very small details that are easy to
miss.
I'm pretty sure that sum is correct
though.
So it trained before now it doesn't
train All right.
It's interesting.
Make sure it doesn't work all of a
sudden here.
It still doesn't work here.
would have to be something with the
buffer. No.
see this is this code's a direct port
like this is a direct port of
handwritten code from PyTorch to librch
and there's probably some very subtle
little thing Here.
I suppose we could try without the pad
sequence.
Could try without the pad sequence.
Actually, I'm going to do that next. I'm
going to try without the pad sequence
next.
If this doesn't find it, I what I'll do
is I'll basically I'll just do this code
in a loop. And if that doesn't work,
then it's something with the buffers,
right? Cuz like what the heck else could
it be?
Yeah, I think next operation will just
be we do this in a loop here.
That actually might be better anyways to
be fair because this is literally just
the fallback implementation anyways,
right?
So why do we need to have this just like
this massive mess
where we introduce two different
pathways,
right?
I think that this is because the buffers
are sort of different shapes. So, I
don't actually think this is it.
Yeah, it's okay. Basically, within a few
minutes, we'll have this will give us a
guaranteed stable way to do it
regardless
the next thing. So, I think we have um
yeah, we won't be stuck on this all day.
It'll be fine.
And then after this, we will be able to
do
well target will work. We can probably
bind a couple other ends to this to
double check.
Maybe we'll be able to do drive. I think
I should have I think I should be able
to do drive.
It would be so cool to have the driving
end working with this.
So, I'll let this try and then um I and
then I think I'll just like
do this but in loop. Yeah.
And then actually that won't even be
slower because if it gets graphed.
No, there's one additional split off. I
suppose
Fix I made the forward call should be
sufficient.
Okay, let's see if that runs. I think
that that is the layout's different. It
did actually figure out that the layout
is intentionally different.
Yeah. No. Right.
Doesn't work.
No
Yeah, this will be better
cuz otherwise, man, this like this
multi-disipreet logic is just [ __ ]
It's so much easier to just do this in a
kernel.
Um, of course it's completely stupid
that it's done this because like that's
not graphable, dummy.
Does this train?
This train's
Cool.
Rebuild. And now we can actually test
our freaking fernals.
We'll be good.
And I suspect that the um
uh the backwards version is like crazy
redundant, right? Yep.
Well,
is it still train?
multi-discrete working is quite
important.
And actually, if we manage to now have
um a way better kernel for this, that
actually will make it way better to have
your environment as multi-discreet than
it would used to be. Because it used to
be that you'd write multi-discreet ms
and stuff would just be slow. So there
was actually kind of an incentive to um
make your M single discrete more often
than you would really need to.
So custom kernels for the win.
Oh.
That is super good.
Look at that.
Perfect.
Okay. Um
For call is fine.
Custom kernel is fine.
Uh, it is a little bit annoying, I
suppose, that the PO loss backwards has
this stuff in it now, but presumably
this should not be bad at the moment.
Like if I just do this,
we still 10 mil.
Yeah, we're still 10 mil plus.
Uh, this is a good time to make a clean
commit.
Okay,
we're Tap. Yes.
Now
This load map shenanigans is like
whatever. We can figure this out. Um,
Yeah, it just remakes the damn end every
time, doesn't it?
Let's say we ignore resampling for now
because that's going to just suck.
What do we actually need? We just need
the shared method, right?
You just the shared method passes some
crap back.
Okay, let me think about how this makes
what makes sense for this.
This also has variable num agents.
Yikes.
That's no different. Now,
where's this code live?
Doesn't live in Python, that's for damn
sure.
Live in the C++.
Now, I think that this code lives in the
binding,
right?
I think all this will just live in the C
binding code.
I need a few minutes to think about this
and I got to use the restroom. Uh walk
around a bit, grab some tea. I'll be
back in a few minutes.
Um what we're going to try to do is get
the driving ends working with Puffer.
Not the custom reset metric method yet,
but I think we're going to just move a
lot of this into the C layer. I'll be
back.
Let me grab a cup of tea and I'll be
back in a sec.
So,
I think what we're going to do
I think most of this stuff is just going
to get moved
into um
into the binding code. I think that's
the play
because otherwise with the shared in it
stuff it's like
It's really weird and janky, right?
I think what we can do
is this too big for Claude.
I think I can describe this as a precise
transformation though. I need to get it
clear in my head though first.
my in it.
Create the
screws with the block sizes though,
doesn't it? Maybe we should do the block
sizes first.
Yeah. Okay. So, there are two problems
here, right? So first of all is that the
drive v has this like wonky shared in it
thing that needs to get ported now
because I haven't thought about how to
do that. And the second issue is
variable number of agents um in the
sense that different environments have a
static but different number of agents
because that's going to screw with the
way we do blocks, isn't it?
Oh, actually no, it's not.
It's not going to screw with the way we
do blocks
we will simply have um
it could be a little inefficient at
times but it's not going to break it.
Google came out with a new algorithm
called smart sampling.
Smart independent set smart wait
sampling what Jess like what do you
Yeah, because it's doing the init loop
for them.
data sets for ML task. Less data
data sets for ML tasks.
Oh.
Um.
Huh.
What's it based on though?
Like
that like prior. It would be a
replacement for prioritize replay,
right?
Yeah, I think we can do this as a series
of precise ops. Actually,
it's not that hard.
skimming currently. Cool. Cool.
Uh I am doing right now
variable number agents for 40 or at
least like how we had it before. We
could have different numbers of agents
in each end.
That's good.
And now back M star.
Do we have agents? Oh, it does have
numbum agents.
Do we do total agents then? Wait, how do
we do that?
That's super jank.
Simple clo. Yeah, this is all it is. I
just have neo and like a pretty minimal
neim.
Um,
how are we going to handle this?
Okay, maybe we don't make it a required
param.
The buffer is always the same.
The buffers are always the same, right?
the blocks can be different, but the
bumpers are the same.
Yeah. For folks watching, um, if you
want to help me out for absolutely free,
just start the repo. It's all open
source, hyperl
almost to 5K. And I've been slacking on
promos a little bit.
Almost to 5K. Okay.
Okay, I need to actually stay focused
here because this is
it's going to have to premputee. It'll
just do an additional loop over the
ends, right?
Yes,
this is what we want.
So, each buffer needs to know how many
agents it's allocated.
I'm pretty sure at least there's no way
around this.
You end up with a bunch of gross
non-ontiguous copies if you do it any
other way.
Uh they are static when grafted which is
fine.
No. Hang on. I don't want to allow this.
This is bad.
Yes. It's bad.
Right.
Oh, it's hard to tell actually.
Okay, let me think about this.
Let me think about this.
We can simplify this if we assume that
the buff each buffer has the same number
of agents.
How much harder is how much worse is it
if I don't do that?
You end up with a few additional memory
buffers
for graphing.
The main thing is with their reset
mechanism, like they screw it up every
reset,
which is bad.
I think we just do the masking thing.
Right.
Yes.
Okay.
Buffers will have the same number of
agents. M's will have different numbers
of agents.
That'll be simpler.
I'm actually thinking that probably we
can end up with a a cleaner form of this
whole thing. I'm seeing like several
places we can make this a lot simpler.
Okay, that's fine
cuz it's like, you know, feature feature
feature up too much complexity crunch
crunch crunch feature feature feature up
too much crunch, right?
So then what we're going to have to do
essentially is just uh the init
Oh no, we still need to have the um
do we have to have the block starts and
ends?
We might actually I think we still need
to have the block starts and ends but
over end like we need to know which ends
belong to which block.
don't we need to specify block sizes
now?
Do we split up num agents into a
specific number of buffers?
Yeah, we can specify it as a vector par.
Let's look at this
total agents right now. It's coming from
here.
Do we need to know the current buffer
agents?
Yeah,
that'll be better.
So, vector just specifies total agents.
Okay, so you get your VE arcs, you get
your Envarks, total agents
distracting in the background. Okay. Um
slot time up size.
Numms, buffers, all this stuff will get
moved in.
This will end up just being three args.
It'll be vec
and then um use GPU or whatever.
It's fine for now. Not really great.
I mostly just want to have um
I want to have a sense of what this is
going to look like. I think it's going
to be pretty much fine.
And then it just basically it puts the
onus on you to do your initialization
correctly. But it's way easier than it
used to be.
this is nice. The only thing that we'll
have to change is the end loop, right?
I think the work blocks are going to get
screwy, right?
Yeah, because we have like the number
the block specified as the number of
environments. That's
I forgot about this chunk. This one's
way harder.
I'm still worried about the uh the
vector like block filling thing.
I think it'll be okay. We'll do this to
start as a test.
If this doesn't work, we'll test it with
the original config
of hes.
Yeah,
that's much better.
And it'll just end up being effect
agents and buffers as well. Be way
cleaner,
cleaner, simpler.
Yeah.
of the VEC agents deck buffers. That'll
be nice and easy
cuz like otherwise when you would have
to do the math before as well.
Yeah, this is this is the general and
simple thing.
So if you have a really screwy
distribution of M's,
uh the work sizes is going to be weird.
So, we'll have to come up with what that
param will be called in vec because
you're going to have to be able to tweak
it, I imagine.
That can't just be fully auto
Honestly, my goal for Puffer 4, if we
can get the code to a point that I'm no
longer tempted to do so much of this
with Claude because it's actually pretty
succinct and simple, that will be good.
Right now, there's just too much crap
and things are too disorganized.
I think we can make the vec
substantially simpler.
Uh if we only support one dt type, we
can make the kernel simpler and
therefore the binding simpler. I think
that will also simplify our headers.
So, at the very least, we should be able
to strip out like a couple thousand
lines of garbage.
Yeah, the block sizes are going to be a
mess here, but this should be pretty
simple to test.
We should be able to have this working
pretty quick. And then the only thing
we'll be missing for um drive ven is the
sherinet stuff which I think we can do
pretty quickly.
I think we can do that part pretty
quickly.
Oh, hey Jonah. Seeing 17 speed up. 17%
speed up in log cos and values 4%
backwards. Oops. They're not equal.
Uh so if you've made the log coifs and
values 17% faster Jonah then you should
be able to fold that into
uh into fuse scan right
so the log cos and values kernel is an
isolated test that is a chunk of fuse
scan same with log [ __ ] sum x the fuse
scan is a very big kernel it has both
log [ __ ] sumx X and then log clips and
values which uses log [ __ ] X.
So pretty much all the all the overhead
from custom ops other than the PO kernel
which is just like not numerically
correct at the moment but all the other
overhead is in that fuse scan op. So if
you've made an improvement to log co-ops
and values then you should be able to
fold that into the fuse scan and see uh
that be faster as well. So that's how
you can test
I got the multi-discreet working. I
still have a big mess here, but um you
know I'm working through
17% on log cos and values would help
quite a bit I would imagine with fuse
scan.
It's messing with the configs a little
bit too much, but that's fine for now.
If we can get it to work with variable
num agents.
It's done numbers. That's fine. I'll
just We'll cast it back.
Oh, it trains
very good.
And it has too few agents, right?
Because it's supposed to be
like this. Right.
Then this goes to 10 mil.
Maybe. Wait. M changing the ops
themselves does nothing to the
checkpoint
if you scan. Really?
That's weird. Is it still memory band?
Is it like still bandwidth bound?
I thought that the ops were pretty
expensive. Like that's not a super fast
kernel, right?
I mean, there are all sorts of things
you can play with if you'd like.
I need to have um I need to fix the uh
the PO loss kernel for sure. Probably
want to play with BF-16.
I think the PO loss kernel would be
super nice though because that's pretty
much just like a guaranteed little perf
bump. And um
you know also it's like annoying with
multidiscreet and stuff because now it
everything's going through this for loop
with multidiscreet. Um there just a ton
of these stupid little kernels in there.
It'd be way cleaner to have them nicely
merged.
I don't think it's like crazy slow.
look at the PO stuff. Cool. Thank you.
I'm going to figure out the uh the vech
end stuff right now so that we can have
variable numbers of agents in the M's
training and then hopefully if I get the
shared net stuff, I'll have the driving
end working. So, we'll have some new
environments to test against. Um yeah,
that's the plan for right now. And then
I'll be back to kernel stuff, I think,
after.
I am a bit curious if we do um like all
BF-16 activations
if that's like if that's reasonably
stable.
It could be.
Not sure. There definitely some points
we need to do like we need to do better
on stability though.
So, let's just do block size.
Let's do this real quick.
If this works, it's probably just over
running.
Yeah, that's definitely what it is.
Okay, so this will work. We'll get this
to work. And then what about for shared
stuff?
I think we'll pretty much just have to
like do that my function, but for the
more complicated drive engine will be
good. Honestly, it's not that bad.
Yeah, the wrong end of iteration. That's
it.
It can definitely mess this up if I'm
not careful.
Let me look at this.
So, the way this is supposed to work,
you've completed a specific number of
buffers.
can't handle on Sunday. That's about it.
Yeah. No, I'm chilling. I'll be back to
Maryland once it warms up a bit.
I like it there anyways. I get way more
work done.
I think this is correct.
I mean it will be it'll be very quick to
check this.
Okay. So, breakout trains.
Don't worry about the speed. That's the
block size of our back.
Oh jeez. Is it like a little bit off?
Uhoh.
Yeah, that's janky.
It's finished.
Wasn't that like relatively recently
started
I mean, we can set um
here.
we're not going to get a clean debug
build out of this stupid thing at this
point, are we?
I vot five coded Flappy Bird, but it
only transits 90k SPS.
Well,
I'm not going to help you with the thing
that you just viodated, my guy.
that things like 150 lines of code
including all the binding stuff.
You should not need to b code. That
defeats the point of the exercise.
Okay, so we're seging in compute obs
which is in the reset.
What's the expected SPS on a good GPU?
Like a couple million at least.
Yep.
That's like I can't believe it missed
that. That's so stupid.
Three minutes delayed.
Yeah, YouTube does that sometimes.
People
like, "Ah, it's 10 minutes of lag." And
they're just scrolled back 10 minutes.
And then this is the target one. This is
fine.
And this is possibly variable number
agent support
possibly done
Hopefully not unless we bolt stone.
Yeah, we do. God damn it,
man. How are we still um how are we
still going to psych reset?
Well, what was the point of that? What
is like you're not going to learn
anything doing that? Obviously,
do learn the code.
Do you think I can ask the coding agent
in command line to learn the code
My guy
are you uh
outsourcing a bit too much
to learn the code?
Oh well, no. Why the hell would you do
that?
I mean, dude, like literally think about
this for five seconds, right? We have an
entire library of actually well-written
environments that work and that are
clean, right? That you can go read
through.
Or you can have the agent vibe code a
shitty end that doesn't even work
correctly and then ask the agent that
just viodated a broken M to explain to
you how to do stuff based on its broken
end.
Like literally just go read the guide
that I put together, man. We have
several sample ends. It's more than
enough from there to be able to have
like written a good version of that like
Flappy Bird end. Like you should be able
to do it in like not five minutes, but
within a few hours.
Ah,
well.
You're not assigning memory, are you?
And how is this supposed to work?
I'm actually surprised this thing is so
dumb.
Oh, wait. Do we have buff agent?
No, that's actually okay.
Did it a little weird, but
Why does my freaking thing not um
is my auto complete not going?
Uh, hang on. I'm dumb.
I am very dumb.
Yeah, I'm Yeah, this is totally This is
why.
Okay. Well, oops.
It trains
like can it should we just train it
fully?
This is like way too many agents for the
stupid little end though.
Are you in the cleaning up phase? Um,
well, we're binding other environments,
so there's still some stuff that needs
to get added in, but most of what we
have to do is cleaning up. Yeah, there's
still a lot of cleaning up.
Yeah, this will be sufficient for
testing.
53. That looks good to me.
That's stable training with variable num
agents for sure.
So this one is not set up for that. So
whatever.
Still
really
speed up is 4x for both.
That's good. Very good. I forget if the
PO loss kernel was all doubles or not.
Um
I had not even gotten it working
numerically that yet is what I
remembered.
testing now.
Do you have it? Wait, do you have the
numeric matching? Hang on. Copy paste
it. Where's it? Is it in the Discord
presumably?
Uh, I don't see it in Did you put it in
Discord
or is it a Is it just Did you update the
PR or what?
new PR base for this. Okay, let me
commit this. One sec.
perfect. We've got variable numbum agent
support.
What time is it? It's two. Oh, great. We
still have plenty of time. I've only
been live for five hours. This has been
a short stream so far.
Um,
yeah. So, what we're going to do, let me
use the restroom real quick. Let me grab
some tea. I'm going to take a look at
Jonah's
uh Jonah's new kernel. Give him a little
bit of guidance and then we'll see if I
can get the shared in it stuff or the
drive end working because it'd be really
cool to have that one bound and tested
and we'll see how long that takes. I'll
be back.
I got to send one message and we will
get looking
It's a drunk car. Um
Yeah, my best advice.
It's probably going to take you a while
before you can like understand all the
stuff I say here, but all my best
advice.
There's the programming and ML guide
right here, which is probably my most
viewed piece of content.
It doesn't have a step-by-step guide on
how to learn programming, but it has all
my best advice. Um, and then for RL
specifically, there's this one.
But I think that this will give you a
nice starting point
and prevent you from wasting a lot of
time.
Honestly, the only model I have that I
really really like for um in editor
right now is the Super Maven model cuz
it's just ridiculously fast.
Let me go click Jonas PR.
All right, what do we got here? Man,
how do you efficiently learn to program?
I'm lost. So you do projects, man.
That's what you do. You start with
really basic, simple little projects
that you write entirely yourself. So you
do the end to end, the whole thing.
Do something that's like you can do in
50 lines of code if you're brand new or
less. Work your way up to projects that
are a few hundred lines of code. You can
do a lot in a few hundred lines of code.
And after a few months, maybe, you know,
you're ready to work on something that's
close to a thousand lines.
But all my best advice is in that
article on like things not to do and
things not to waste your time on.
It's going to be about 80 80% just doing
and maybe 20% formal resources.
Like obviously you need to know the
basics of syntax.
But the actual toolkit of things that
you need to know to be effective is very
small and the skill required to use them
uh to use them well is very high.
Let's say
original FP32.
It's better than Super Maven.
It would be nice to have a local model
that I can run though.
They don't have the prediction latency
on this thing.
Oh, under 500 ms. Yeah. Okay. So, 500 ms
is crap
on laptop and under 500 ms though. Yeah,
they need they need to have this thing
benchmarked properly. So the thing is
super maven.
Yeah, it was like 250.
And honestly, even that like it would be
much better if it were faster.
Oh, wait. No, this was was this there
500 dimensional laptop?
presumably a GPU laptop.
I mean, I can try it if it's a local
model. That looks cool.
Eventually, Super Maven will get um like
cursor will stop supported yet.
New PR to Discord.
Is this what I just did?
There's no correctness check on this
though yet, right Jonah?
So there is a correctness check that was
not fully passing in um if you look in
test microbench.
Yeah. So if you have it like this, this
will be super good.
Yeah. What if it's this fast? Then
there's no need to make it faster than
this. like three microsconds is going to
be that's amazing like perfect
and it really it should be that fast.
It's not an expensive operation at all.
The backwards being that fast is very
nice.
You can see the torch ops though are
like
meh. It does get substantially better
when you graph it,
but like still 49 micros. I'd rather
just not have exist. Plus, this will
make it better when this will be way
better as well for training with um if
you have to disable uh cudigraph for
whatever reason. The non-graft path will
be way nicer.
20 to 30 tokens per second.
That's probably nice to have.
I'd have to put it on a container is the
thing. How much RAM how much um but we
probably wouldn't want to put it on the
GPU, right?
Cuz like if we put it on the GPU, then
we're going to be eating into the RAM of
um the RAM we have for training.
So I guess if it's the half bill model,
like the 500 mil model, that's what um
are they float weights or are they
quantized?
It's only a couple of gigs. It's not
bad.
What would you like me to do with this,
Jonah? Like the speed's great. We need
this to pass numeric checks.
And yes, I know that the original did
not pass numeric checks.
Wait, checkpointed forward. Oh yeah,
scan.
Check discord messages get eaten. My
bad. Added to the to profile kernel now
the correctness.
Wait, it's added to profile kernel now
the correctness. But then wait,
I don't see the um
I don't see the correctness check on
here.
Like do you have a passing check?
Profile kernel has the correctness in
it.
Oo.
So the original versus PyTorch did not
work.
What is this editing? Profile kernels
CUDA kernels
back end.
Maybe we merge this.
I think I'm going to merge this and play
with it
since I have you here.
Let's see how Oh, it does. H. This
merges cleanly somehow.
got to jump in like an hour.
Okay, let me see if I can get your
kernel to run.
So, this is how we currently are on
breakout with no kernels. What is this?
Actually, let's do like this.
I'm confused. What the heck is What's
going on here?
Yeah. So, cleanoral is very simple. It's
I mean my favorite thing out there. Um
and a lot of the inspiration for Puffer.
The speed difference with Puffer though
is just like
it's more than a,000x at this point for
a lot of stuff.
Presumably, this is the one that I
included. So, we'll use yours.
I think yours it's the same, though.
I think your merge might have included.
Yeah, I did.
Okay. So, this is our original speed,
right?
And now
this trains in
like 12 seconds.
We have this one commented because it
wasn't stable. Right.
stupid.
It's like, oh, this pathway is like not
being used. Let me remove this even
though it's obviously commented for use
later.
What do I mean by it being like super
redundant to add it
places? Okay.
we'll check the original kernel and then
we'll check yours
now.
Yeah, I'm using it for I mean, you see
what I'm using it for.
right
mostly just using it to apply
um well- definfined transformations to
existing code.
Okay, so this completely breaks
learning. We can see this, right? The
loss completely breaks learning with
this one. We'll try your optimized one.
Uh presumably this doesn't have module
bindings.
So um copy
So I mean this is like a well-escribed
transformation. There's there's no
ambiguity of what the code is going to
look like for this, right? It just needs
to go update redundant stuff in like
five places.
Numbers you always look out for besides
SPS on what? Liberty.
Yes. This needs these launch configs.
Actually, shouldn't these have been
there already?
these. I hate all these launch sticks as
well. We're going to probably end up
doing um We'll see if we can end up just
deleting all those these ones.
Differences in kernels.
Oh, well, I mean, we have we have NSIS
or um
Nys tells us exactly how many
microsconds,
you know, we're spending in each kernel.
And then there's a correctness check,
right? And then sometimes the
correctness check can pass but training
can fail. So then we also make sure
training still works.
Yeah. So like this looks like it's
adding a huge chunk of code, right? But
this is literally just copy pasting and
changing the names.
So presumably this somehow is passing
numeric checks but um
I think this does need to be zeroed
kernel overwrites. Ooh.
Okay.
Yeah, cuz it's a catastrophic failure,
right?
Oh, wait.
Hey, your version learns, dude.
At least it learns a little bit.
Okay. So, let's go see what your thing
is. loss output.
Let's try this
simplified 20. Wait, what do you mean
simplified?
Fixed reset.
What has been simplified, K? Because we
have I got it bound to puffer 4. So, we
can actually try some stuff pretty soon.
I'm fixing one kernel here with um with
Jonah.
But we should be able to have like some
fast
uh fast puffer 4 test on 2048.
Wait. Oh, did I do the wrong one? Oh,
I'm dumb. I did the wrong one. My bad.
like he suggested.
Interesting.
I will have to look at it with you in a
moment. Let me get the
Let me see if we have our this kernel
working.
It's faster, but this still doesn't
work, man.
Where's this check that we have? It's um
make a PR to 40. Awesome. That will
help.
Do a saved for backward saved for
backward also gets empty. Is that
getting accumulated or just written too?
testing against just breakout, man. So,
breakout should be an easy solve
there.
What's How's this breaking now?
Oh.
Uh, yeah, that's annoying.
It got all the way up to 10.9 towards
the end of training, by the way. So, if
we can make this thing stable,
that's pretty awesome.
Okay, you added a whole bunch of counts
for this. Good. Um,
optimi original versus optimize.
Original versus t pietorch. Optimize
versus pietorch.
Anyone code AI in this joint? My dude,
this is the development of the highest
performance reinforcement learning
library streamed live several times a
week for many, many hours.
How do you pass that kernels variable
back into that function? I don't see a
kernels variable
through though in train imp and puffer
the uh should I just commit this or no
you're on a fork right well you can
still pull it here
Okay, there's your uh
there's your commit.
Wait, is this Yeah, this is zeros.
Here, I'll do zeros. Zeros messes up um
uh zeros launches extra kernels, by the
way. Empty does not as does not launch
extra kernels, but zeroing launches an
extra kernel, which is why it's better
to fuse it if you can.
I have no idea why Zeroing launches next
for Colonel as well because like they
could just do um
Cuda does have a mess set, right?
They could totally do that without
launching a freaking kernel
and add that. Yeah. Yeah, we can totally
do it in the kernel itself, man. Let's
get it stable and then we can do that.
If we get this stable today, though,
that'll be so nice because I've been
wanting this kernel to just freaking
work for so long.
And it's been passing the numeric check.
I don't know what's wrong with it.
I as you can see here though something's
wrong with it.
What's this? We get do we get um arcs
torch.
Okay. So I mean these have reasonable
coefficients here. I was concerned if
you had zero end coefficient for
instance,
but these look fine.
I'm worried like
is the check just not scaled correctly
because sometimes like the um
the checks can be such that they're just
massively scaling down error.
What's the command to run breakout?
So once you've rebuilt then it's just
this
Python gem puffer lip puff pearl train
puffer breakout
you have to rebuild both. So you do
scripts build back breakout like this.
Scripts build vec breakout. And then you
do the uh the setup as well.
Okay. So without cudigraph, same result.
So it's not cudigraph screwing it up.
I just want to see what happens if I do
this. If if it actually screws up the
profile as expected.
Well, the C++ one is basically um
like that's copied from the other file.
I do suppose it's possible they're out
of sync though
like maybe we're not copying the outputs
or some weird thing correctly. But it
does learn, right? It like it learns
mostly. It seems numerical cuz it learns
quite a bit and then it like crashes or
tops out or whatever,
you know.
Maybe it's a learning rate thing.
Uh, well, they should have the same
learning rate. So, unless there's some
dumb thing going on.
So, this should mismatch now, right?
When I do the
brightness check, it should totally
mismatch.
Okay. Okay. So, if I do this, I get um
original versus torch.
Wait.
Okay, the original and the optimized
match and then the torch ones mismatch
if I do this. So, this is the expected
behavior.
But literally just multiplying this arg
by two, I only get a mismatch on the
order of 1 e minus 2.
So, like I'm wondering if it needs to be
way smaller.
I'm going to try this real quick to see
if it reveals anything and then I might
just hand this to you to see if um if
you can figure this one out if that's
all right
because it's like the kernel is so
close.
I'll take one more look though actually
at the uh the calling code just to make
sure I don't have anything wrong there.
Good to try to figure it out. That would
be very helpful.
first of all if if any of our users run
the thing right now with cudigraph on it
uh with cudigraphs disabled uh the loss
is ridiculously slow in normal torch. So
it'll like it'll just up our uh our
overall
usability a ton. But then also even in
um
even Without that, we still lose a
little bit of PF to not having
everything fused here.
It's kind of silly
because I think with this one with this
kernel, we'll be close to 11 mil SPS.
And we'll also have cleaned up the uh
line profiler a ton
is always good.
Let's just check the calling code real
quick for you
because um I don't want to mess it up
for that dumb reason.
I don't see any copies in here.
Is it this this thing graph MB ratio
copy?
Mine seems to learn.
Wait, that's the correct score.
Is it built using the um
custom kernels and everything?
Like you have kernels. If you check um
Oh, I'm not sure where is that puffer
lab puffer
line 157ish
kernels through right
Buffer the puff for row 157.
Let me make sure I didn't forget this
thing.
So we have ratio new and value new,
right?
If this is not getting updated, this
would do. This would do it here. So, it
might just be this.
I actually I don't see where this would
be getting updated.
Let me see if I can get this to roll it
into the kernel call.
Wait, MB ratio.
I think that this one does actually
matter a lot. I think this is probably
it.
I think that it's not like these buffers
are not getting updated. I remember
these being important. It's like this
quirk of um it's a quirk of the puffer
po implementation that seems to be quite
crucial
here. It's trivial for this thing to
just fold it into the kernel. Let me see
if that fixes it.
It'll probably incur some buffer
overhead.
It's literally a copy. I'd be shocked if
it screws up um folding it into the
kernel.
If this works and I can fuse the zeros
call like the zeroing calls in and um
then we'll be set.
Fold two lines into kernel has to change
things in 10 places.
C++ header modules launch kernel. Yes.
Let's see if this does anything.
Put into the right one. Optimize. Yeah,
I did.
We can go check what happens to see if
it's a comparable effect, right?
Like if I just comment these two lines,
what happens?
Reran again and you hit 850.
Really?
Huh?
Both forward and backward. Okay, maybe I
missed it in backward. Hang on.
Let me go double check.
If you're getting it, then that's
perfect.
Okay. Apparently, it's supposed to work
even without this. Weird.
wait that me set async to the launch
function Okay.
What would this be? Grad loss. No, you
wouldn't want this. No. Where? Where did
this Where would this go?
Wait, what are we zeroing?
What are you zeroing in the the
backwards?
Wait,
what are you zeroing in the backwards?
Okay.
See
I see. I thought I did that though. It
didn't make a difference.
Why did it not work? Wait, is it with
colonels on?
Colonels are off though.
So
on.
Yeah. No, wait. What
is it better? It's still not working.
And you did rebuild this thing.
I mean, regardless.
Oh, do you have the if false on here?
Can you check? There was like an if
false around the kernels thing before.
If you check the extension
because it wasn't working before.
Can you make sure that this thing here,
this is like infernals. You don't have
if false on it.
Like make sure it's actually rebuilt the
version of it you know that you rebuilt.
you run setup.py build torch. And if
that learns, then I need to see what you
have because if you have it working,
yay, we're we're set.
Okay, so that's the correct thing.
Um,
can you run the setup which is python
setup.py build torch in place force. Can
you run this?
Did I break it then with the kernel
update thing that I did? I'm confused.
Only thing I can think is we comment
this crap.
Nope.
Got to jump in a minute. Can go through
branch.
Yeah, that would be great. If you have
if you can get this thing working like
that's awesome. I think I'm going to go
do the drive in for a bit. Um, and if
you get this working, that would be
that'd be great. Like, cuz this kernel
would be very nice to have.
It's a pretty decent speed bump.
tomorrow early next week. Sounds good to
me. Thank you.
Okay, this is without that kernel. Still
10 mil.
Yeah, I think it's like maybe an extra
four to 500 thou 4 to 600,000 steps per
second that other colonel would add,
which would be nice. I'm using a
restroom real quick and then we're going
to figure out the drive environment. Let
me mentally reset.
Okay. So, we need to download the
binaries for this thing, right?
simplified but reliably reaches 65k
grid only obs
istic.
Okay.
Okay,
that's uh
I want to see the policy for sure.
We got here.
Okay. It's just a sequential encoder,
right? Oh, wait. Position embedding.
Um, mine's a little different though,
right?
It's a fairly simple net though.
Cool.
I see no reason not to merge this
immediately.
And what I'm going to do, Kung, is we'll
see if I can repro this uh the training
and I'll see if I can do it on uh the
Puffer 4C networks
and we'll compare the Perf.
That should be good.
Did this change make the training speed
faster or slower? By the way,
merge. Yep.
Uh, I'm fixing a couple things and I
guess I can go um see if I can get this
running for you guys real quick on
Puffer 4.
It shouldn't be that hard. Hang on.
Back.
Yeah, we'll uh we'll just port off real
quick.
this? Probably. And then all this is
going Oh, yeah. It's right there.
Perfect.
And then all these stats presumably
Didn't I fix What do you mean didn't you
fix it? This is new bindings for 40,
right?
Looks like the older version
look new to me.
I fixed those in PR. You did binding
code for really.
Let me go check.
Uh I don't see any changes under
extensions.
So, no, you you didn't change for uh
I don't see any files committed for the
40 bindings. The 40 bindings are
different.
No big deal
there. That's That's something
for three bindings. Let's go fix your
network.
four actions.
This
Hey, Weston.
How's it going, man?
Is it just the encoder? It is just the
encoder, right? G2048 encoder.
Nothing else.
That's easy enough.
Nearing the end of neuro feedback. I've
gone over two months without touching
any code. I hope you're doing better,
man.
I've been in Florida. I ended up just
being in like um in California for like
two days on the way back.
it's just a slight different encoder.
Right.
encoder.
This is basically the same.
And then you just add
allergies cleared up. Wait, doing a lot
better actually.
Neurosim helped with sleep. Can fall
asleep within 30 minutes, not three
hours. That's way better, man.
Allergies also cleared up. Hey,
what's the most important thing?
want to absolutely take care of that.
You got time for other stuff after.
Don't fix health. You don't have time
for anything.
Wait.
Oh, do you need separate policy and
value heads now?
Do you think that's important that
they're separated?
It's kind of a pain in the ass
otherwise.
Heaven abladed.
A
Yeah, we'll make it match. It's just
going to be annoying.
I separated them for convenience.
It's the decoder that's a pain in the
ass. I'll just have to ablate it a
little bit. We have this thing where um
the kernel expects we have this like
fuse decoder kernel essentially that
expects some stuff to be memory
contiguous.
There's a lot of just ludicrously
optimized stuff in um in Puffer 4. Oh
yeah, also that guy multi-discreet turns
out to be completely and utterly trivial
if you have a custom kernel.
It's literally more complicated in
PyTorch than it is in CUDA.
Why? Because you had to do this padding
[ __ ] where like this padding
[ __ ] right? And then there were
like it calls like 10 other kernels and
stuff and you literally just write one
extra for loop in the CUDA and you're
done. And it's fast.
No overhead.
Literally faster than doing single
discrete.
Multi multi-discreet
multinnomials. The white whale. Okay.
Oh, the soft max. No. Why do you think
the big labs have not done this yet?
Puffer, they're busy chasing shiny
thing.
Like you can literally say that about
everything country. I've had, this has
just been the last 10 years with my
researchers been like, I wonder why the
big labs haven't done this. Well, they
haven't done it. They're not doing it.
I'm doing it. Whatever.
Sampling for actions. Yeah. No, sampling
for actions. Uh, it's really easy.
It's multinnomial to sample multi. Yeah,
it's super easy.
We have it fast now. There's no white
whale. White whale's been hunted.
Wait, it is 16 obs.
Wait, how does it say 16 and then 18?
Wait, how does
how is this 18?
This value embed is 18, but then the
environment has dim 16.
Feel like all your research been Wow,
people are dumb. And you're right. Yeah,
that's pretty much how it goes.
Uh, hang on. We need to have vector
number. Yeah, this is totally wrong.
Total agents
What are you working on now? PRS I've
worked on I'm working just on a couple
quick ones
because they're directly relevant for
testing 40.
How fast is this thing supposed to be?
John
Oh, wait. But you train with um Hang on.
You train with 16K, don't you? Yeah, you
train with 16K. Okay.
Wait. G2048 LSTM.
Uh, it should be on GU though. You have
Skelloo.
Merge
any tips for maximizing config for SPS?
Uh, well, it doesn't make any There's no
intuition in Puffer 3 because Torch is a
mess. So, things that should work a
certain way because of the hardware
don't work that way.
With Puffer 4, it's just like bigger
batch faster, more agents faster.
But at some point, more agent stops
helping actually learn faster. just like
increase SPS's
Let's see what what were we supposed to
match for this for the curve.
What's the reach stats?
Oh, yeah. I Well, that's just a puffer
for thing. I haven't exported all the
stats yet, man.
They're they are there, but like the um
once I add the hook, like they'll just
show up for all the M's. All your custom
stats will just show up. myself to do
that.
Yeah. No, I didn't I didn't delete it,
dude. It's actually like the hooks. I
actually have all the stats written out
already there. It It just needs to be
turned on essentially.
Thank you for the wi link. Uh,
let's see.
What do we want? We want score.
Where we at? We're at 250 mil. Oh, it
crashed. Lovely.
Okay.
Well, something wrong. We crashed it.
The obs became a single me copy.
What do you mean?
Yeah. So, this crash. So that's not
good. We have to do more stability test.
It did get a thousand something pretty
quick in the first couple minutes.
Two minutes. So it would have been like
here.
Okay. Hard to say. OBS buffer.
That's very nice
blobs network.
Hey, I'm hoping we can use this for a
ton of research now. I'm going to have
to run some stuff on this. I would love
to know why it's not any faster in
Puffer 4. That would be good to know
because this net is like ludicrously
optimized.
I mean, probably if I just do this
here. How fast does this go? If I just
do that.
Yeah. So, that goes to 3.4 mil
immediately.
I mean, 3.5.
In puffer for you, you just give stuff
like really low overhead.
Oh, again, this is weird.
H.
All right. Well, we'll use this as a
test then because there's a bunch of
things that aren't working the way they
they work on the other Ms. Probably
something is odd.
Not sure.
All right, that is integrated though.
Okay.
Drive environment next.
How do we download this stupid thing,
man?
[ __ ] hugging face. I swear.
What is the command to run this stupid
thing? I swear
that lack of the like just not having
the command here always drives me nuts
cuz I always forget this thing.
Okay, this is what we want.
Yeah, these dots are good. It's just the
uh the other one is dated.
But wait, this is open motion.
Not found. Do you have to open and close
the stupid term?
Well, we have an environment to sweep
and uh to test once we have stable
everything, you know.
It just made a zip
which is not what it's
I mean, it's just like it's stupid
hugging face. I swear
they just did this release last week and
apparently they've already like screwed
with their CLI yet again.
Okay. What we're going to do is lab
Ocean
resources drive binary map_.bin.
Right.
there.
How
stupid thing, man.
This is this like specific type of thing
to deal with pisses me off so much.
process to big
slashtraining.
Okay.
Finally
data
I didn't need 10,000 maps, but we got
10,000 maps.
I'm going just pour all this crap. I
swear.
We can ignore this put and get
this my shared thing.
because we we basically have set
everything up, right? All this needs to
do is get ported over to not use um PI
op [ __ ]
over. I can't even give me FL that
you're using it to think for you. You've
already lost.
Stop. Like by now you literally could
have written that thing yourself and
have learned a ton in the process.
I see. So, this is going to do it on
load.
Oh, we don't need to do it twice.
Let's go grab this.
Got to go pay the taxes here.
wrong one wrong one wrong one wrong one wrong one wrong one wrong one wrong
wrong one wrong one wrong one wrong
browser
I just added credits.
Scam.
This is actually not that complicated.
piece of code. It's pretty much just
mocking together two other things.
Yeah, this is a very this uh 2040 item
is very very nice.
Still keeps doing better as well. We can
run it for longer.
1.5 mil.
So the goal here, right, is to just go
over the maps,
load them into the end, update the init
method such that it's already has the
map loaded.
It should be a couple very small changes
to the drive H file
and um
some
it should end up looking pretty much
like the my shared function did before
except without the Python API stuff.
There's going to be some additional
oddity with uh the padding because you
have to handle the padding manually,
but that's just going to be like a loop
over the buffer size.
Other than that, it should be pretty
straightforward.
Numb buffers agents per buffer. Good.
All of our configs with dict get which
is just as before.
This is fine.
less than num buffers seed you get a
random index. This is copied over from
here.
Okay. If it's full,
you free it and you move to the next
buffer. Yep.
Otherwise, you fit it.
And M++ pool. Yep. This is like mashed
together from three different things
that I had written before. This is fine.
It's actually way simpler if you look at
this than the previous one.
back to num ms.
So now we have n numb n numb n numb n
numb n numb n numb n numb n numb n numb n numb num agents.
n numb num agents.
We no longer need this one.
It should be um num
total agents
previous definition. Ah, okay.
That's annoying.
I actually don't know what the uh the
standard to do with this.
Probably we shouldn't have the include
setup like this.
That's really freaking obnoxious, isn't
it?
I'm trying to think how I will fix this.
Like
I want to go mess with this and not
include
vector functions.
I'm not going to make it a DLL. This is
already a freaking deal. like it is
already a DL. Well,
That's so obnoxious.
It's so incredibly obnoxious.
Ideally, you shouldn't have to be
worrying about name conflict when you're
making your ends.
file.
Cool.
Oh, come on. You messed up my terminal
color.
Now we're good.
Okay. No, this works. So it is a genuine
psych pole.
We take photographs off. Can we retry?
Baby.
Oh, worked for that creative grabs
me thing.
How the hell would train leak memory,
man?
I just don't recommend trying to vibe
code like in complicated RL stuff
there.
Let's say it's possible the chronal
leaks memory.
Okay, we can't graph this for some
weirdo reason. That's the thing.
How about this?
Is this out of memory?
7 by3
up space
couple actions flow terms. It's all
correct.
Yeah, I wonder about this. This is
weird.
Looks like it's learning something, but
it's hard to say.
Yeah. So, something with the new CUDA
binding screws it.
Okay. Yeah, that it's the new binding
specifically.
That's bizarre that that would cause om
I I don't know how. That's weird.
That's like weird. Super weird.
I wasn't expecting that.
I have absolutely no idea how the hell
food does that. That's bizarre.
Well, I didn't say that you could put it
there. Wait, you know, this is fine.
Yes.
Okay. Yeah, this is fine.
Hey Spencer, I'm working on um
working on getting the drive bend into
puffer 4.
and now I got to go look at how stuff
was before.
Any of the oddities?
Um, I have no idea how we're going to do
the resets thing.
That one's pretty rough.
There's a lot of stuff that's going to
be jank, man. I'm basically just gonna
see like I think the thing that I would
like help with is if we can at least get
a demo of the speed training on
something and then be like, "Hey, it's
going to take some porting work to get
the full thing on here." We'd be good.
It's not straightforward cuz you have to
remake the whole bloody end the way it's
done right now.
I think we can figure it out. It's pain
in the ass though.
So, we definitely can't remake the whole
VEN. I think we can rebind the existing
memory, though. It's a little weird, but
the more I think about it, the more I
think it'll be okay, and ultimately
it'll be simpler than what we had
before. But like, yeah, it'll be a
little bit of
Well, now this is bizarre because now
everything is just OMA.
Um, we had one guy. So, we got a a
contribution to the fused scan kernel
that made it a little bit faster. I
think we're going to be close to 11 mil
SPS once we get the PO loss kernel to
work.
I think it'll peak like 10 Seven 10 N.
What are we using Ray Math for here?
Ice in Texas is scary.
Oh yeah.
Make sure you get your winter coat. It's
really cold, man.
Real cold in Texas.
Laughs in Boston.
Is there a thing we're using ray math
for? Is it vector 3?
What do we do?
This is really dumb that we have to like
handle namespace collision with freaking
CUDA
just because we're including it.
Weird thing, man. It's weird.
Actually, real quick.
Was it It's Colonel's.
It's like this. The thing that makes it
slow.
I don't know how that over that. That's
weird.
How long have I been live? For eight
hours.
Feel like I could just keep going all
night if I had um I just got a little
bit of food.
Get food now.
Only 510.
I'll go check in a second.
Um,
Wait. 8192 segments.
Why segments like this? Oh, that's the
issue, right? 8192 segments.
Just make sure it's not like memory
being ridiculous.
Just make sure it's not memory being
ridiculous.
Let's figure out why this thing is
doesn't work without um
without photographs because look,
there's a breakout.
A
I see I see.
This does not right.
This does not like insta.
So this does train
and now we have to figure out there is
something wrong
I'll be right back. Let me use the
restroom. Let me go grab something. I'll
be right back.
So, let me just verify this is what I
think it is because this is ridiculous.
All right. So, we got is it
works,
right?
Oh,
photographs on
works
and kernels on.
Okay. So,
we're going to do Like this.
Just going to figure out which one of
these it is.
Spencer snow. I'm going to try to see if
I can get puffer compatible supervised
model
testing will be way faster. Get accurate
elo estimates. Oh yeah, that'd be really
good.
I don't understand how the hell this
can.
that doesn't make any sense to me at
all.
See if we're backwards.
I mean, that would do it
probably very quickly as well, right?
Because proper just pranks data.
7.7. Wait.
It's not photographed.
Weird.
Very weird.
Do we fault? Yeah, now we still pull.
Okay.
Weird that would like have any influence
though.
I remember there being weird stuff, but
this is the problem.
I just remember them like having done
something weird with this.
Yeah. See, this is not going to be
usable.
yeah, it doesn't do the stuff in the
middle,
right? So this is set active agent
indices
some ops
And then in it gets returned to its
original state.
still volts. Can we at least run normal
tra?
We run normal tra
Yes. Yes, we can.
It runs as before though.
How the hell would this mess with our
ability to grab something?
Let me make sure that I didn't screw up
the buffer somehow.
See, I'm going to move to the next
buffer.
blog post. I did start writing it
though. I did start writing it.
It's annoying because my opinion
actually keeps changing of it the more I
use it.
Like it still feels very useful, but it
feels very stupid now that I've used it
for um a little longer.
like definitely useful but very stupid.
Yeah.
You know, I wonder if I hardcoded
Hang. Let me just make sure I didn't
hardcode
some dumb thing here.
Oops.
Oh,
I know what it is.
Well, there's the bug fixed. And there's
700,000 steps per second.
So, they're going to be very happy about
that. I got to fix this stuff. I think
what I'm going to do, guys, I'm going to
go run for a short dinner and pending uh
that, I think I should be able to do a
night stream. We'll see. I'm going to
see how I'm feeling. But we're making
really good progress, so I think it
makes sense to do a bit more today. I
could do some tomorrow, but I think it's
generally better I at least take one day
off a week. So, thank you all. Um, if
you're interested in my stuff generally
and want to support my work for free,
feed the puffer star and get up. We're
almost to 5,000.
You can join Discord to get involved
with dev. Follow me on X for more RL
content. And I will be back.